

According to World Health Organization(2019), mental illness at workplace is very important part of organization for economic side like it will affect 
the productivity of the employees that is link to their profit in an organization. It is also stated by (Hennekam et al., Citation2020; Lerner & Henke, 
Citation2008; McGurk et al., Citation2003)that employees who may experience mental illness will decrease the productivity and cognitive which is 
vital part at the workplace and can give impact at environment workplace.  Most adults who are active in workforce are the ones that has the tendencies to 
experience mental illness as what (Shann et al., Citation2014) mentioned. But most managers according to (Martin et al., Citation2015) their decision making 
and supports are not enough to for employees who has the tendencies to have mental illness. On the article "Its a New Era for Mental Health at Work" by Greenwood and 
Anas, on the 6th paragraph stated that more employees left their job because of mental health reasons such as overwhelming and unsustaianable tasks. As the statistics 
shows that in Millenial generations, 68% of the total population left the job voluntarily due to menatl health reasons while Gen Z's has 81% total population left 
voluntarily with the same reason which is mental health. If the issue with regards to mental heqalth at workplace was not solved, there could be a problem in 
terms of manpower that will affect their income generation. But in the same article, it was mentioned that some companies decided to invest on mental health supports 
at the workplace like trainings on how to adopt changes at culture during pandemic days and providing extra paid time off and mental health days.  It was stated 
54% of the respondents believed that mental health was prioritized at their company, "47% of respondents believed that their company leaders were 
advocates for mental health at work", "47% believed that their manager was equipped to support them if they had a mental health condition or symptom" Increase
were observable comparing to year 2019 41% mental health was prioritized , 37% ompany leaders were advocates for mental health at work and 39% manager was equipped
 to support them if they had a mental health condition or symptom. The term technology sector according to investopedia "relating to the research, development, or 
distribution of technologically based goods and services. This sector contains businesses revolving around the manufacturing of electronics, creation of software,
computers, or products and services relating to information technology". The study about use of technology by (Brumberg,2018) reflects that working with technology is
quite hard as employees becomes frustrated and then actually burden them as what (Ayyagari et al., 2011) said. In temrs of productivity level (Tams et al., 2020)
and (Grandhi et al., 2005) agreed that the use of technology might not help to optimize the productivity level of the employees and end up overlaod on human cognition.
It came to the point that other employees feels "technology overload" where in they feel fatigue physical and mentally due to the extensive use of technology based to
(K. J. Harris et al., 2013). The American psychologist Craig Broad stated that computer technology can be a cause of stress among its users. He introduced the 
term ‘technostress’ to label psychological responses to negative experiences with computers. Tarafdar et al emphasize the definition of "technostress"
technology environmental conditions, demands individual and require a change, psychological, physical, and behavioural outcomes for the individual’ resulting chronic 
stress risk factor for several diseases including mental diseases."In today's work landscape, the ubiquity of technology is undeniable. While a few drawbacks exist,
it's an unstoppable force, so why not embrace it and focus on its numerous advantages?The cornerstone of a successful and productive workplace is a motivated 
workforce consistently delivering high-quality output. To keep both employers and employees content, seeking efficient and cost-effective solutions is imperative.
One pivotal task in fostering a seamless work environment is harnessing technology expressly designed to empower collaborative workplaces. Technology remains 
in a constant state of flux and will continue to seamlessly integrate into the workforce, consistently elevating productivity and overall workforce performance.
This insight is sourced from Kitaboo.com, a leading digital textbook platform, authored by Snehnath Neendoor. As what Using Technology to Make Work More Human
by Allison Fine and Beth Kanter publishes that, While automation can undoubtedly handle certain aspects
of jobs, there are very few, if any, that should be entirely taken over by smart technology. However, what automation can profoundly transform is the overall work 
experience.Instead of merely speeding up tasks and reducing the need for human labor, smart technology offers a unique opportunity to reimagine job roles and 
streamline workflows. This, in turn, empowers individuals to concentrate on the facets of work where human capabilities truly shine. These include building 
relationships, making intuitive decisions, displaying empathy, and solving complex problems.

1. Increasing the understanding of employees with mental illness is important for both economic and humanistic reasons. From an economic perspective, 
ample research has shown that employees with mental illness can cost organizations in the trillions of dollars each year (World Health Organization, Citation2019)

2. Empirical evidence has demonstrated that employees with mental illness often experience decrements in productivity and cognitive functioning 
(Hennekam et al., Citation2020; Lerner & Henke, Citation2008; McGurk et al., Citation2003), which can have a significant impact on their work-related performance. 

3. Despite evidence that rates of mental illness and suicide are steadily increasing among adults, many of whom are actively involved in the global workforce, organizations are grossly underprepared to manage and respond to employees with mental illness 
(Shann et al., Citation2014). Managers and those in positions to make employment decisions lack both conceptual and procedural knowledge that is necessary to support vulnerable employees (Martin et al., Citation2015).

4. More employees are leaving their jobs for mental health reasons, including those caused by workplace factors like overwhelming and unsustainable work. 
While the 2019 rates of attrition were already surprisingly high, they’ve gone up even more since then. Sixty-eight percent of Millennials (50% in 2019) 
and 81% of Gen Zers (75% in 2019) have left roles for mental health reasons, both voluntarily and involuntarily, compared with 50% of respondents overall (34% in 2019). 
Ninety-one percent of respondents believed that a company’s culture should support mental health, up from 86% in 2019.

5. Companies are finally investing more in mental health support out of necessity, but they still haven’t achieved true culture change.
Our respondents noted that the availability of many resources provided by employers grew since the pandemic, including extra paid time off, 
company-wide mental health days, and mental health training

6. While there is still a great deal to be done, some companies have made progress on the culture front, likely fueled by the pandemic. 
Fifty-four percent of respondents believed that mental health was prioritized at their company compared to other priorities, up from 41% in 2019. 
In addition, 47% of respondents believed that their company leaders were advocates for mental health at work (compared to 37% in 2019), 
and 47% believed that their manager was equipped to support them if they had a mental health condition or symptom (compared to 39% in 2019). 
These are both potentially results of increased training and discussion

7. The technology sector is the category of stocks relating to the research, development, or distribution of technologically based goods and services. 
This sector contains businesses revolving around the manufacturing of electronics, creation of software, computers, or products and services relating 
to information technology.

8. However, studies showed that employees are becoming frustrated by the extensive use of technology in the workplace (Brumberg, 2018). 
The increased connectivity by technology can place a burden on the employees as they access them at anytime and anywhere (Ayyagari et al., 2011). 
Technologies frequently create interruptions that reduced workers’ productivity and decreased the use of technology (Tams et al., 2020). Devices and tools that are designed to decrease the burden on human cognition are inadequate; 
in fact, they have truly added overload on human cognition (Grandhi et al., 2005).

9. Others defined it as “the extent to which perceptions of the technology-related task performance requirements are excessive and the 
feeling that computers have compounded the overall workload” (K. J. Harris et al., 2013). This study defined technology overload as 
“technology overload is a specific condition, phenomenon or a point where technology users feel the physical and mental burden to use a technology 
during their everyday life.”

10.The American psychologist Craig Broad was one of the first scholars who suggested that computer technology can be a cause of stress among its users. 
He introduced the term ‘technostress’ to label psychological responses to negative experiences with computers.

11. Technostress in its stricter sense (technology as a stressor) is closely related to transactional stress theory established in psychological stress research. 
Tarafdar et al. define technostress as ‘a process that includes 
(1) the presence of technology environmental conditions; which are appraised as (2) demands or techno-stressors that are taxing on the individual and require a change; which set into motion 
(3) coping responses; that lead to (4) psychological, physical, and behavioural outcomes for the individual’. 
A resulting chronic activation of the human stress system is the proximal risk factor for several diseases including mental diseases

12. There will be parts of jobs that are suitable for automation, but few, if any, that can (or should!) be completely replaced by smart tech. What automation can change for the better is the experience of work. 
Rather than doing the same work faster and with fewer people, smart tech creates an opportunity to redesign jobs and reengineer workflows to enable people to focus on the parts of work that humans are particularly well-suited for, 
such as relationship building, intuitive decision making, empathy, and problem solving. 

13. There is no way to avoid the increasing presence of technology in the workplace. Although there are a handful of disadvantages to this trend, it is inevitable, so why not embrace it and focus on all the positives it brings.
What makes a successful and productive workplace is the presence of motivated employees who are able to efficiently and consistently produce quality work. 
Finding cost effective and time efficient solutions is a must to keep employers and employees happy.
Taking advantage of technologies that have been designed to enable collaborative workplaces to thrive is a key task in assuring a fluid work environment. 
Technology is always changing and is going to keep integrating into the workforce as it continues to have a positive impact on productivity levels and on overall workforce performance.











 





